Hi everyone and welcome to
the first lesson of week three.
In this module,
we'll be discussing
the mission planning problem in
autonomous driving
and how to solve it.
If you recall from Module 1,
the autonomous driving mission
is the highest level portion of
our motion planning task
and it's crucial
for navigating the autonomous
car to its destination.
In this video, we'll introduce
the mathematical concept
of a graph and how it can be
used in our mission planner.
In addition, we will discuss
how a graph can be used to
represent the road network that
we are required to
navigate through.
Finally, we'll discuss
the Breadth-First Search
algorithm and
how it can be applied to
mission planning.
Let's get started.
First, let's recall
the autonomous driving mission.
The objective of the autonomous
driving mission is to find
the optimal path for
the eagle vehicle from
its current position to
a given destination by navigating
the road network while
abstracting away
the lower-level details
like the rules of
the road and other agents
present in the driving scenario.
In this module, we will think
of optimality in terms of
the amount of time or distance it
takes for the car to
reach its destination.
For autonomous driving,
mission planning
is considered the highest
level planning problem.
This is because
the spatial planning scale
of the mission planner is
on the order of kilometers
and the mission planner
doesn't focus on
low-level planning
constraints such
as obstacles or dynamics.
Instead, the mission
planner will focus on
aspects of the road
network when planning,
such as speed limits
and road lengths,
traffic flow rates
and road closures.
Based on these constraints
posed to us by the map,
the mission planner needs to find
the optimal path to
our required destination.
One thing to note about
the road network is
that it is highly
structured which is
something we can
exploit in our planning process
to simplify the problem.
By exploiting the structure,
we can efficiently find
the optimal path to
our destination based
on the map given to us.
To do this, we will need to use
a mathematical structure
known as a graph,
which we've overlaid onto
our road network here.
So what is a graph?
A graph is a discrete structure
composed of a set of
vertices denoted as
V and a set of edges denoted
as E. For the mission planner,
each vertex in V will
correspond to a given
point on the road network,
and each edge E
will correspond to
the road segment that connects
any two points in
the road network.
In this sense, a sequence
of contiguous edges in the graph
corresponds to a path through
the road network from
one point to another.
An example of a
graph is shown here.
For now, we will assume
each road segment
is of equal length,
so the edges of this
graph are all unweighted.
However, in future lessons,
we will relax this restriction.
To generate a graph such as this,
the road network needs to
be discreetly sampled,
which will give us
the vertices of our graph.
The edges will then be
defined by the
segments of the road
that connect each sample point
according to the rules
of the road.
Note that in general,
just because point A is
adjacent to point B
using a road segment,
it does not mean
that point A can be
reached from point B from
that same road segment.
This is because in
many cases there is
only one direction that
a road segment can be
legally traversed.
In this sense, the edges
of our graph are directed
in that the edge is only
traversable in one direction.
We've denoted this
by using arrows for
our edges in the graph to
display their directionality.
Now that we have
are directed graph,
how do we find an optimal path
to our destination?
First, we locate the vertices
in the graph that
correspond to our current eagle
vehicle position which we
will denote as S and
our desired destination
which we will
denote as t. These two vertices
are shown on the graph here.
Once we have these two vertices,
we can use an efficient
graph search algorithm to
find the optimal or shortest
path to our destination.
Since our graph formulation
is currently unweighted,
a good candidate algorithm is
the Breadth-First Search or BFS.
At a high level,
BFS can be thought
of as iterating through all of
the vertices in the graph but
doing so in a manner such that
all adjacent vertices
are evaluated
first before proceeding
deeper into the graph.
In this sense, the graph
search proceeds like
a moving wavefront through
the graph or breadth-first.
Let's walk through the steps
of the BFS algorithm.
We construct three data
structures to aid in
our search and open queue
of vertices still to be assessed,
a closed set of vertices that
have been assessed by
the search algorithm
and a dictionary of
predecessors which store
the results of the search.
A queue is a first-in-first-out
data structure,
such that the first
vertex pushed or added to
the queue is the first one
popped off or returned
from the queue.
A dictionary is
an unordered set of
key-value pairs and for
each node in the closed set,
stores a predecessor vertex
that will identify momentarily.
The algorithm starts
by adding our
start vertex to the open queue.
Then, while the open queue
contains vertices,
we take the first element from
the open queue and check if
it is the goal location.
If so, we found
our shortest path.
If not, we then add
all adjacent vertices not
already in the open queue or
closed set to the open queue.
This prevents us from getting
stuck in cycles during
the graph search.
Note that by adjacent,
we mean all vertices that can
be reached from
the current vertex.
Because we use a queue
to store open vertices,
we ensure that
all adjacent vertices
at the current depth in
the search are processed
before proceeding
deeper into the graph.
So all vertices that are
one step away from
the start vertex
will be processed before moving
on to vertices that
are two steps away.
As a vertex is added
to the open queue,
we store its preceding vertex
in the predecessor dictionary.
This will help us reconstruct
the optimal path once
the goal is found.
Finally, we add
the currently active vertex to
the closed set and return to
the next element of
the open queue to process.
Because of the breadth-first
nature of the BFS algorithm,
by the time we reach
the goal vertex,
we have processed all possible
predecessor vertices of
the golden vertex
that are closer to
the start vertex
then the goal vertex.
This means that when we
reach the goal vertex,
we have found the
shortest path to the goal
vertex and we can
terminate the algorithm.
To solidify our understanding
of this algorithm,
let's work through
a concrete example.
Suppose our mission
planner needs to
find the optimal path
from point s to
our destination t
through the set of
vertices in our graph
which are now labeled,
the first step would be
to process the origin
s and add all
adjacent vertices to
our queue and set
their predecessors to
s. The outgoing edges that
lead to the adjacent vertices
are highlighted in blue.
Once we've added
these to our queue,
we then add s to our closed list.
Next, we pop off vertex a.
The outgoing edges of
a lead to d and b,
but b is already in
our queue, thus,
we only add d to the queue and
mark a as its predecessor.
We've highlighted
this duplicate path to be in
red to show that we do not
add b to the queue twice.
We've now processed
all adjacent edges
from a and move it
to the closed set.
We repeat the same process for
b which adds E to
the queue with b as
its predecessor and c which has
no new adjacent vertices so
does not add vertices
to the open queue.
Next, we process
d from the queue,
which only adds t
to the queue with
d as its predecessor since
e has already been added.
When e is popped off,
it doesn't add c or d to
the queue because both of
these vertices have already been
processed and are present
in the closed set.
Finally, we pop off
t from the queue.
This is our goal vertex.
So we now reconstruct the path
from s to t by following
the chain of predecessors from t
back to s. Once this is done,
we've found the optimal path
to our destination,
which is highlighted in green.
The sequence of edges
corresponding to
our optimal path in
the graph can be turned into
a root over the road
network using our map,
which can then be used to govern
more detailed motion planning in
the subsequent layers of
our planning hierarchy.
Before we wrap up this video,
we should note that there is also
the highly related
Depth-First Search algorithm
among many others.
Depth-First Search
uses a last-in,
first-out stack instead of
a queue for the open set.
This change means that
the most recently added vertex is
evaluated instead of the oldest.
The result is a search that
quickly moves deeper in the graph
and then eventually backtracks
to vertices added much earlier.
From this video, you should have
an understanding of the mission
planning problem and
how we construct
and use graphs as
a map level representation
of our planning domain.
In addition, you should now
be comfortable with using
Breadth-First Search to navigate
an unweighted graph to find
the shortest path to
a given destination.
In our next lesson,
we're going to make the
graph more complex by
adding different weights
to the edges in our graph,
to better reflect
the different costs for
using different road
segments and we'll
introduce Dykstra's
algorithm a method for
handling this new complexity.
See you next time.